Document javaScriptInitializer (#28140)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/blazor/components/index.md

rootComponent.dispose();
```

> <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Web.JSComponentConfigurationExtensions.RegisterForJavaScript%2A> includes an overload that accepts a JS function to register the custom element (`javaScriptInitializer`). The following example demonstrates the dynamic registration of a component that renders a quote.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Web.JSComponentConfigurationExtensions.RegisterForJavaScript%2A> includes an overload that accepts the name of a JS function that performs initialization logic after the component gets registered. This function can be used for integration with JavaScript technologies like HTML custom elements or a JavaScript-based SPA framework. The following example demonstrates the dynamic registration of a component that renders a quote.
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Don't confuse the `javaScriptInitializer` parameter of <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Web.JSComponentConfigurationExtensions.RegisterForJavaScript%2A> with [JavaScript initializers](xref:blazor/fundamentals/startup#javascript-initializers). The name of the parameter and the JS initializers feature is coincidental.

`Shared/Quote.razor`:

> ```razor

Reviewer: More of a high-level question - would it be possible to reuse the example that registers a `Counter` component, and use this section to add a `javaScriptInitializer` to it? Is there a reason we need an entirely new example?

Author: Well ... the `Counter` example is kind'a ... er .... ***boring*** 😆. I was hoping to jazz 🎷 this example up a bit.

<div id="quoteDiv" class="m-5 p-5">
    <h2>Quote</h2>
    <p>@Text</p>
</div>

@code {
    [Parameter]
    public string? Text { get; set; }
}
```

In `Program.cs`, add the namespace for the location of the component. The following example assumes that the `Quote` component is in the app's `Shared` folder, and the app's namespace is `BlazorSample`:

```csharp
using BlazorSample.Shared;
```

In `Program.cs`, register the `Quote` component.

Blazor Server:

```csharp
options.RootComponents.RegisterForJavaScript<Quote>(identifier: "quote", 
    javaScriptInitializer: "initializeComponent");
```

Blazor WebAssembly:

```csharp
builder.RootComponents.RegisterForJavaScript<Quote>(identifier: "quote", 
    javaScriptInitializer: "initializeComponent");
```

In HTML:

```html
<button onclick="showQuote()">Show Quote</button>

<div id="quoteContainer"></div>

<script>
  async function showQuote() {
    let targetElement = document.getElementById('quoteContainer');
    await Blazor.rootComponents.add(targetElement, 'quote', 
    {
        text: "Crow: I have my doubts that this movie is actually 'starring' " +
        "anybody. More like, 'camera is generally pointed at.'"
    });
  }

>   async function initializeComponent() {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  function initializeComponent() {
```

Reviewer: Might also be nice to have this function accept arguments and log their values, similar to what we do [here](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/1dd6f451a0df2ee8e4575dd8dca9df77fda129b1/src/Components/test/testassets/BasicTestApp/wwwroot/js/jsRootComponentInitializers.js#L5).

Reviewer: Also, does this example work? We find the `javaScriptInitializer` function by looking for it on the `window` object. Either way, could we modify this slightly, so we directly attach the function to the `window` object similar to what we do in the code I linked above?

Author: > does this example work?

👍 Yes, it does work.

> We find the javaScriptInitializer function by looking for it on the window object. Either way, could we modify this slightly, so we directly attach the function to the window object similar to what we do in the code I linked above?

Sure ... I'll follow your advice on that. I'll get back on this first thing Friday morning.
